Ongoing on line News and Analysis from Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/>


* Home* <http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/> 	*   Opinion and Analysis* 	

		
		
	News <news.php> 	
	Analysis <articles.php> 	
   	The Bolivarian Project <articles.php?sec=bp> 	
   	International Relations <articles.php?sec=int> 	
   	Economy <articles.php?sec=econ> 	
   	Political Developments <articles.php?sec=pd> 	
   	Constitution, Law & Judiciary <articles.php?sec=const> 	
   	Labor <articles.php?sec=lab> 	
   	Opposition <articles.php?sec=opp> 	
   	Military <articles.php?sec=mil> 	
   	Indigenous communities <articles.php?sec=ind> 	
   	Environment <articles.php?sec=env> 	
   	Land Reform <articles.php?sec=land> 	
   	Oil and Gas <articles.php?sec=oil> 	
   	Mass Media <articles.php?sec=med> 	
   	Civil Society <articles.php?sec=soc> 	

	Documents <docs.php> 	
	Audio Clips <audio.php> 	
	Links <links.php> 	
	Email announcements list <mailinglist.php> 	
	About us / contact <about.php> 	


			

			

		

*Help us stay
on-line!*


		
Updates by Email
		

		


		
Links
		

<http://www.venezuelafoia.info/>
<http://www.aporrea.org/>
<http://www.abn.info.ve/>
<http://www.vtv.gov.ve/>
<http://www.zmag.org/venezuela_watch.cfm>
<http://www.newleftreview.net/>
<http://www.greenleft.org.au/>
<http://www.rnv.gov.ve/noticias/index.php?act=SF&f=23>
<http://oilwars.blogspot.com/>

		


		
In Venezuela, Oil Sows Emancipation
Monday, Mar 20, 2006 		*Print format <print.php?artno=1694>*
 
<javascript:WinOpen('sendbyemail.php?docid=1694&tipo=art&tit=In+Venezuela%2C+Oil+Sows+Emancipation',
'500', '550');> 	*Send by email*
<javascript:WinOpen('sendbyemail.php?docid=1694&tipo=art&tit=In+Venezuela%2C+Oil+Sows+Emancipation',
'500', '550');>


 

/By: Luciano Wexell Severo - Rebelion.org/

The data just released by the *Banco Central de Venezuela*
<http://www.bcv.org.ve/> (BCV) confirm that the Venezuelan economy grew
at a cumulative 10.2 percent between the fourth quarter of 2004 and the
fourth quarter of 2005.  This is the ninth consecutive increase since
the last quarter of 2003.  Overall, in 2005, the gross domestic product
(GDP) grew at 9.3 percent.

Just like in the previous eight quarters, the strong increase was
fundamentally driven by activities not related to oil: civil
construction (28.3 percent), domestic trade (19.9 percent),
transportation (10.6 percent), and manufacturing (8.5 percent).  The oil
sector had an increase of only 2.7 percent.  According to a report by
the Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INE), the unemployment rate in
December 2005 was 8.9 percent, two percentage points below the rate in
the same period of 2004.  In absolute terms, this means 266,000
additional jobs.  Last year, the inflation rate reached 14.4 percent,
but that was below the 19.2 percent rate in 2004.  The nominal interest
rate went down to 14.8 percent.

These results bear out the expectations of the ministry of finance and
belie the persistently pessimistic forecasts made by economic pundits of
the opposition, who insist on the idea of a "statistical rebound."  The
term was invented in June 2004 as an explanation for the growth in the
economy: the increase in the GDP was supposed to be an arithmetic
illusion due to the depth of the fall in the previous periods.  But, by
now, this would be a fantastic and unheard-of case of a ball dropping on
the floor only to bounce back up and up, without signs of slowing down,
in defiance of the law of gravity.  In a commentary on the economic
expansion, the minister of development and planning, Jorge Giordani,
said ironically: "The productive rebound continues . . . social practice
and some modest figures have falsified the ominous desires of the
political opposition.  Their political judgments, disguised as economic
technicalities, have been exposed by the new reality."

It has been shown that one of the legacies of the neoliberal period is
the disdain for history: a shortsighted strategy that goes only as far
as the horizon of the financial system, virtual, outside of time,
detached from reality, fictitious.  That legacy could explain why the
orthodox analysts view the Chávez government as responsible for the poor
results in the economy between 1999 and 2003, a period they are trying
to label as the "lost five years."  Contrary to their view, let us
remember: to a large extent, Hugo Chávez won the presidential elections
of December 1998 because Venezuela was facing its most catastrophic
economic, political, social, institutional, and moral crisis, after 40
years of power sharing between the traditional parties Acción
Democrática (the socialdemocrats) and COPEI (the Christian democrats). 
The country and the people agonized as a result of the rampant
corruption, profligacy, and perversity of the Fourth Republic (1958-98).

Venezuela, which hardly benefited from the oil shocks of 1973 and 1979,
was sinking, at a faster speed since the early 1980s.  According to
Domingo Maza Zavala, currently a director of the BCV, between 1976 and
1995 alone, the country was awash with nearly 270 billion dollars in oil
revenues, equivalent to twenty times the Marshall Plan.  Yet, the
national foreign debt owed by Venezuela doubled between 1978 and 1982. 
This illustrates well the dynamics of wastefulness and economic savagery
of the so-called "Saudi Venezuela."

In the early 1990s, with the "Great Turn" and the "Oil Opening"
inaugurated by Carlos Andrés Pérez -- continued by Rafael Caldera's and
Teodoro Petkoff's "Agenda Venezuela" -- the country was handed, tied and
gagged, to the International Monetary Fund.  That was the beginning of
an accelerated process of national destruction: the role of the public
sector in the economy was reduced in size, physical capital was
divested, the economy was de-industrialized, strategic sectors were
privatized, and historical labor conquests were taken away.  Among
others, the following companies were privatized and even
de-nationalized: the Compañía Nacional de Teléfonos (Cantv), the
Siderúrgica del Orinoco (Sidor), the Venezolana Internacional de
Aviación S.A. (Viasa).   They extended a long list of financial
institutions, sugar mills, naval shipyards, and companies in the
construction sector.  In 1998, there were specific plans to submit
*PDVSA* <http://www.pdvsa.com/> to the international cartels.

Everything was done, supposedly, in the name of lowering the budget
deficit, encouraging the inflow of foreign capital, modernizing the
national industry, attaining greater efficiency, productivity, and
competitiveness, reducing inflation, and lowering unemployment --
semantic trickery to sugarcoat the Washington Consensus and make it
palatable.  Less than ten years later, international entities like the
*UN Economic Commission for Latin America* <http://www.eclac.cl/>
(ECLAC), the *World Bank*
<http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/COUNTRIES/LACEXT/VENEZUELAEXTN/0,,menuPK:331773%7EpagePK:141159%7EpiPK:141110%7EtheSitePK:331767,00.html>,
the *IMF* <http://www.imf.org/external/country/VEN/index.htm> and even
the Vatican recognized the spectacular failure of these policies. 
However, long before their belated conclusions were made public, the
Venezuelan people had already raised up and pursued an alternative. 
Episodes of this uprising were the Caracazo in 1989 and the two
civic-military rebellions in 1992 -- the first one led by the then
unknown commander Chávez.  These insurrections, unlike what happened in
the other countries of our region, constrained to some extent the
implementation of the neoliberal agenda.

FOUR STAGES IN THE ECONOMY DURING THE CHÁVEZ GOVERNMENT

Under the government of Hugo Chávez, the Venezuelan economy has gone
through four different and clearly defined stages.  As the continuous
analysis that we have been conducting in the last four years
demonstrates, in each of these moments -- sometimes determined by the
actions of the government itself, sometimes by the reactions of the
opposition to the changes in progress -- the country has experienced
sharp turns in the direction of its fiscal, monetary, and
foreign-exchange policies.

In 1999, Venezuela's GDP fell 6 percent as a result of the extremely
deteriorated condition of the economy and of the campaign of emotional
blackmail against the recently-elected president by the mass media which
are historically connected to foreign interests.  Let us remember that
Maritza Izaguirre, minister of finance under Caldera, remained in office
during the first nine months of the new government.  The contraction of
the economy was a natural reflection of this period of adaptation,
combined with inertias that dated back to the third quarter of 1998, as
well as the oil's extremely low international price -- close to 9
dollars per barrel at the time.

The recovery of the prices of the crude -- direct fruit of actions
undertaken by the Chávez government -- and the expansive fiscal and
monetary policies put in place marked the beginning of a new stage. 
During the years 2000 and 2001, the GDP increases of 3.7 and 3.4
percent, respectively.  In these eight quarters, the non-oil GDP grew 4
percent on average, whereas the oil GDP only rose 1.2 percent.  There
were verifiable drops in unemployment, the consumer price index and the
interest rate, which led to an increase in credit, consumption and GDP
per capita.

Between the inauguration of Hugo Chávez in February 1999 and by midyear
in 2002, the oligarchy -- connected to foreign interests in the oil
sector -- adopted a cautious stance.  The outbreak of discontent
occurred by the end of 2001, when the government submitted a legislative
package seeking to induce deep structural changes in the main sectors of
the economy: the state company Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA); and
laws encompassing liquid and gas hydrocarbons, land ownership, the
financial system, income taxation, and the cooperatives.

Then the third phase began: a battle that lasted a year and a half,
approximately.  Between the end of 2001 and February 2003, everything
happened in Venezuela: the bosses' lockout in December 2001; the coup
d'etat promoted by the CIA in April 2002; conspiracies and the "oil
sabotage" between the last quarter of 2002 and February 2003.

The foreseeable result: the Venezuelan economy fell 8.9 percent and 7.7
percent in 2002 and 2003, respectively.  This was a collapse akin to a
war economy.  The surprising result: Hugo Chávez emerged stronger from
the crisis.  After the coup d'etat failed, the coup participants in the
armed forces were exposed and demoralized.  The sadistic attack against
PDVSA demonstrated the anti-national and desperate nature of the
privileged class, threatened as it felt by the nationalist actions of
the government.  The conspiracy managed from Washington caused the
collapse of oil production from 3 million barrels per day to 25,000,
paralyzing production and triggering the bankruptcy of hundreds of
companies.  In the first and second quarters of 2003, the GDP fell 15
percent and 25 percent, respectively.  Altogether, for seven consecutive
quarters, the economy, the income per capita, and the international
reserves fell -- all accompanied by a rise of the unemployment rate to
20.7 percent, of the annual inflation rate to 27.1 percent, and of the
interest rate to 22 percent.

But, the third quarter of 2003 ushered the beginning of the fourth and
current phase of the Venezuelan economy in the administration of Hugo
Chávez: the recovery.  To understand the magnitude of this recovery,
consider the size of the disasters in 2002 and 2003.  Today, for
example, the gross formation of fixed capital -- the additional
accumulation of capital assets --reaches 24.2 percent of total GDP.  In
the middle of the 2003 conspiracies, it fell to 14.0 percent. Venezuela
is just starting to walk again.

WHY IS THE ECONOMY GROWING?

This reinvigoration of the Venezuelan economy is direct -- although
nonexclusive -- result of the increase in oil prices to an average of
57.4 dollars per barrel (Brent blend, December 2005).  The hydrocarbons
are -- and will continue to be for years to come -- a pillar of the
economy.  But, then, what else is news in Venezuela?

The novel thing is that definitely the country is sowing or planting oil
in the productive sectors of the economy, as required by Arturo Uslar
Pietri seventy years ago.  A portion of the oil revenues is used as a
funding source to structure and strengthen the domestic market
("endogenous development") and jumpstart a sovereign process of
industrialization and definitive economic independence.  The oil
provides an instrument in overcoming the rentier, unproductive, and
importing economy already established by the 1920s, when the operations
of the "devil's excrement" began in the Lake Maracaibo.

In particular, the sowing of oil is being made possible through seven
mechanisms: (1) the amendment to the hydrocarbons law and the increase
in royalties received by the government from the transnational oil
companies; (2) the adoption of controls over the exchange rate in early
2003, which doubled the international reserves (from 15 to 30 billion
dollars) and made possible the implementation of further measures; (3)
the new law governing the central bank and the creation of the Fondo de
Desarrollo Nacional (FONDEN) with already a balance of almost 9 billion
dollars; (4) the new approaches by the tax collection authority, the
SENIAT, that increased tax revenues in 60 percent this year -- mostly
from large domestic and transnational companies, historically the
deadbeats and evaders; (5) a broad plan of public investments in a
platform of basic industries, with their consequent multiplier and
accelerator effects on private investment in industries that transform
basic inputs into products of higher value added; (6) the contribution
in 2005 of nearly 5 billion dollars to the Misiones Sociales, as an
emergency mechanism to honor the immense accumulated social debt, lower
unemployment, and fight inflation; (7) the work conducted by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land (MAT) to rescue and reactivate the
production of a million and a half hectares of unproductive large
estates, strengthening the 2006 Sowing Plan and incorporating thousands
of farmers and workers into the productive process.

These seven mechanisms account for the fact that, since 2004 and in
spite of the strong growth in oil prices, the non-oil GDP grew
significantly faster than the oil GDP, demonstrating the positive impact
of oil exports on activities not directly related to crude extraction.
 While in the second quarter of 1999 the share of non-oil GDP was 70.5
percent of total GDP, today it stands at 76.0 percent.  And, partly as a
result, in this period, the share of the oil GDP in total GDP shrunk
from 20.1 percent to 14.9 percent.

Even more significant is the acceleration in the manufacturing industry
between early 2003 and the present.  Manufacturing was the sector that
grew the fastest in the period, recently surpassing oil GDP -- for the
first time since 1997, starting year of this statistical series at the
BCV.  This dynamism can be verified especially by the consistent
increases in electricity consumption, automotive vehicle sales, cement,
durable products for civil construction, iron, and aluminum. Within the
manufacturing industry, the branches that grew fastest are: automotive
vehicles, trailers, and semi-trailers (13.5 percent); food, drinks, and
tobacco (10.6 percent), rubbers and plastic products (10.3 percent), and
machinery and equipment (7.0 percent).  The share of manufacturing in
total GDP, which shrunk to 14.7 percent during the "oil sabotage," is
now reaching 16.7 percent with a momentum to grow briskly.  These
results will be improved upon when the full impact of the
"Agreement/Framework for the Recovery of the Industry and Transformation
of the Production Model" as well as the "Decree for the Provision of
Inputs and Raw Materials to the National Manufacturing Sector" are
felt.  These policy instruments seek to limit the exports of raw
materials and to guarantee basic inputs -- like aluminum, iron, steel,
and wood -- to the Venezuelan producers.  From early 2003, the share of
final consumption goods in total imports has gone down from 37.6 percent
to 24.2 percent, accompanied by an increase in the acquisition of goods
devoted to gross capital formation from 12.3 percent to 25.7 percent of
the total.  That is to say, Venezuela has invested its foreign exchange
in purchasing machinery, parts, and equipment that make it possible for
the process of sovereign industrialization to proceed.

The dollars at the FONDEN have been reserved to finance strategic
development plans in such sectors as basic industries, oil, gas,
physical infrastructure, transportation, and housing.  Within these
outlines, new companies are being created and new projects are unfolding
like the new Venezuelan iron-and-steel plan for the production of
special steels, a factory of "seamless" oil tubes, three new oil
refineries, ten sawmills, plants to produce cement, plants to improve
iron ore, factories to produce aluminum sheets, plants to produce pulp
and paper, and many others.  In addition to that, the Inter-American
Development Bank recently approved a credit of 750 million dollars for
the construction of the hydroelectric power plant at Tocoma.
 Altogether, just by itself, the national power system will receive
investments that approach 3 billion dollars in 2006.

All these plans have been directed by the Venezuelan government, which
will control at least 51 percent of these initiatives, although many
will involve strategic associations with other countries or private --
national or foreign -- investors.  The goal is to strengthen
international relations, especially with other nations in Latin America,
with China, Spain, India, Iran, and Italy, in the spirit of building an
Alternativa Bolivariana para la América (ALBA) and contributing to
creating a multi-polar world.  Instances of this are the recent
initiative to build the oil refinery Abreu e Lima, in the Brazilian
state of Pernambuco, agreed between PDVSA and Petrobrás; the agreements
with Argentina to build oil tankers at the Santiago River shipyards; and
the bi-national tractor factory Venirán Tractor, with the government of
Iran, which has already turned out its first 400 units.

The government initiatives to join forces with national entrepreneurs
are many, looking to reactivate the industrial and agricultural
apparatus.  The goal is not solely the economic recovery, but the
creation of bases to abandon the rentier model, sustained by raw oil
wealth, and to establish a new productive, endogenous model, with
internal dynamics and life, able to guarantee economic growth and
national development.  In March of 2005, the ministry of basic
industries and mining (MIBAM) was created, commissioned to build the
bases for a sovereign process of industrialization.

NEW THREATS AND ATTEMPTS AT DESTABILIZATION

A recent note published in the Venezuelan newspaper /El Universal/,
under the headline *"The Economic Recession Looms,"*
<http://www.eluniversal.com/2005/08/05/eco_art_05208A.shtml> is quite
enlightening.  The note says: "the Venezuelan economy is showing the
first signs of an imminent recession, due to the stagnation in the
non-oil sector."  This is the exact opposite of what the statistics show
-- as I have tried to explain.

The anti-national sectors that brought us the bosses' lockout, the coup
d'etat, the oil sabotage, and the continuous conspiracies against the
country are back at it.  This is a reaction against the inroads made in
the profound process of economic and social transformation the country
is undergoing, the progress in income redistribution and social
inclusion, which had very positive effects in the economic activities
and the country's political life during 2005.  The initiatives of the
government to extend a hand to the nationalist entrepreneurs show the
will to seek unity in working to activate industry and agriculture,
creating jobs and fostering the endogenous development.  In addition to
this, Venezuela is expanding its international relations with important
countries and has made effective its membership to *MERCOSUR*
<http://www.mercosur.int/msweb/>.

All the predictions are that, in 2006, the Venezuelan economy will grow
at nearly 6 percent, with parallel advances in an array of economic and
social indicators.  This is the best moment the Chávez government has
had since it was inaugurated and, with the president's proposition to
advance towards the "Socialism of the XXI Century," the stage is set for
a process of even more intense structural changes in the outlook.  The
next presidential elections will take place in December, this year, and
the prospects of another victory for the Bolivarian forces has disturbed
the White House and its domestic allies.  It is possible that, in its
increasing isolation, the Bush administration will again resort to
violence to disrupt democratic and popular governments.  On the other
hand, as it has happened before, the actions orchestrated by the U.S.
government will meet the resistance of the Venezuelan people, and each
aggression will only increase their consciousness and reinforce their
participative and protagonistic democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Luciano Wexell Severo* <http://www.voltairenet.org/article123226.html>
is a Brazilian economist.  This article was originally published in
Spanish by /*Rebelión*/ <http://www.rebelion.org/noticia.php?id=28158>
on 12 March 2006.  The English translation was provided by *Julio Huato*
<http://mrzine.monthlyreview.org/huato060206.html> for MR Zine 

/Original source / relevant link:
MR Zine <http://mrzine.monthlyreview.org/lws160306.html> /

 

	 Top of page <#top> 	<#top>

*Fair use notice of copyrighted material:****
*This site contains some copyrighted material that in some cases has not
been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such
material available in our efforts to advance the understanding of
politics, human rights, the economy, democracy, and social justice
issues related to Venezuela. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of
any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US
Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the
material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have
expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for
research and educational purposes. For more information go to:
www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml
<http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml>. If you wish to use
copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go
beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.

2003 VenezuelAnalysis.com <http://www.VenezuelAnalysis.com>
Ongoing News, Views and Analysis from Venezuela


<http://www.eluniversal.com> <http://www.eud.com>
<http://www.el-nacional.com> <http://www.cnnespanol.com>
<http://www.unionradio.net> <http://www.unionradio.com.ve>

		
		
Features
		
Media Watch <articles.php?sec=mw>
A U.S. Intelligence Hoax on Venezuela?
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1710>/Michael Fox/
<news.php?newsno=1517> The Bolivarian Project
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?sec=bp>
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1699>The Meaning of
21st Century Socialism for Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1776>
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1699>/
Gregory Wilpert /
International Relations
<articles.php?sec=int>Latin America's New Consensus
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1709>/
Greg Grandin /
Economy
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?sec=econ>In Venezuela, Oil
Sows Emancipation <http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1694>/
Luciano Wexell Severo /
Political Developments
<articles.php?sec=pd>Fishing for Fraud in Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1750>
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1718>/Oil Wars /
Constitution, Law & Judiciary
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?sec=const>
Building Socialism of the 21st Century in Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1511>/
Michael A. Lebowitz /
Labor <articles.php?sec=lab>
The Real Fracture in Venezuela?s Labor Movement is Ideological
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1775>
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1583>/Steven Mather /
*Opposition* <articles.php?sec=opp>*
* <http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1701> As Elections
Loom, Venezuela's Opposition Won't Commit to Participation
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1701>/
Eric Wingerter /
Military <articles.php?sec=mil>
Venezuela's Weekend Warriors
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1704>
/Alexander Holland/
*Indigenous and Afro-Venezuelans* <articles.php?sec=ind>
Hugo Chávez and the Politics of Race
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1577>/
Nikolas Kozloff/
Environment
<articles.php?sec=env>The Open Veins of Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1400>/Jeroen Kuiper /
Land Reform
<articles.php?sec=land>Venezuela's Urban Land Committees and
Participatory Democracy
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1668>/Alex Holland /
Oil and Gas
<articles.php?sec=oil>PetroCaribe: Chávez's Venturesome Solution to the
Caribbean Oil Crisis
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1660>/Kaia Lai /
Mass Media <articles.php?sec=med>
Growing Movement of Community Radio in Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1637>/Sujatha Fernandes/
Civil Society <articles.php?sec=soc>
Participatory Democracy In Venezuela
<http://www.venezuelanalysis.com/articles.php?artno=1626>/America
Vera-Zavala /

		


		
Documents
		
Venezuela's Foreign Minister denounces at OAS the frequent negative
statements by U.S. officials against President Chavez <docs.php?dno=1013>

The US State Department Counterterrorism Office report on the fight
against terrorism is inconsistent in relation to Venezuela
<docs.php?dno=1012>

ALBA: Bolivarian Alternative for Latin America and the Caribbean
<docs.php?dno=1010>

Statement in Support of the Documentary Film ?The Revolution Will Not Be
Televised? <docs.php?dno=1008>

Venezuela: Official Press Agency Distorts Human Rights Watch?s Position
<docs.php?dno=1007>

Statement of Solidarity with Bolivia from the participants of the First
International Encounter of Solidarity and Resistance of Indigenous
Peoples and Peasants in Caracas <docs.php?dno=1006>

Letter condemning the US actions that prevented Venezuelan President
Chavez from going to the US to speak at the UN <docs.php?dno=1005>

Speech by Foreign Relations Minister Roy Chaderton at the 58th session
of the General Assembly of the United Nations <docs.php?dno=1004>

Guidelines to Regulate the Procedures of Referenda Recalling the
Mandates of Elected Officials <docs.php?dno=1003>

Position of the Venezuelan government at the 127th conference of OPEC
with regard to the status of Iraq in OPEC while under occupation
<docs.php?dno=1002>

Letter to President Chavez by U.S. Congress members <docs.php?dno=1001>

Position of the Venezuelan government in the fifth ministerial meeting
of the WTO <docs.php?dno=1000>

		

 


 

 

 

